[//]: # ( )
[//]: # (This file is automatically generated by the `jsarch`)
[//]: # (module. Do not change it elsewhere, changes would)
[//]: # (be overriden.)
[//]: # ( )
# Architecture Notes



## Knifecycle

The `knifecycle` project is intended to be a [dependency
 injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection)
 with [inversion of control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inversion_of_control)
 tool. It will always be tied to this goal since I prefer
 composing software instead of using frameworks and DI/IC is
 a major part to design strong software in my opinion.

It is designed to have a low footprint on services code.
 There is nothing worse than having to write specific code for
 a given tool. With `knifecycle`, services can be either constants,
 functions or objects created synchronously or asynchronously. They
 can be reused elsewhere (even when not using DI) with no changes
 at all since they are just simple functions with annotations
 set as a property.

[See in context](./src/index.js#L55-L71)



### OOP

The `knifecycle` use case is one of the rare use case where
 [OOP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming)
 principles are a good fit.

A service provider is full of state since its concern is
 precisely to
 [encapsulate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encapsulation_(computer_programming))
 your application global states.

[See in context](./src/index.js#L73-L82)



### Creating initializers

`knifecycle` uses initializers at its a core. An initializer is basically
 an asynchronous function with some annotations:
- name: it uniquely identifies the initializer so that it can be
 referred to as another initializer dependency.
- type: an initializer can be of three types at the moment
 (constant, service or provider). The initializer annotations
 varies accordsing to those types as we'll see later on.
- injected dependencies: an array of dependencies declarations that
 declares which initializer htis initializer depends on. Constants
 logically cannot have dependencies.
- options: various options like for exemple, if the initializer
 implements the singleton pattern or not.
- value: only used for constant, this property allows to know
 the value the initializer resolves to without actually executing it.
- extra: an extra property for custom use that will be propagated
 by the various other decorators you'll find in this library.

`Knifecycle` provides a set of decorators that allows you to simply
 create new initializers.

[See in context](./src/util.js#L6-L27)



#### Dependencies declaration syntax

The dependencies syntax is of the following form:
 `?serviceName>mappedName`
The `?` flag indicates an optionnal dependencies.
 `:mappedName` is optional and says to the container to
 inject `serviceName` but to inject it as `mappedName`.
 It allows to write generic services with fixed
 dependencies and remap their name at injection time.

[See in context](./src/util.js#L508-L517)



### Registering initializers

The first step to use `knifecycle` is to create a new
 `Knifecycle` instance and register the previously
 created initializers.

Initializers can be of three types:
- constants: a `constant` initializer resolves to
 a constant value.
- services: a `service` initializer directly
 resolve to the actual service it builds. It can
 be objects, functions or litteral values.
- providers: they instead resolve to an object that
 contains the service built into the `service` property
 but also an optional `dispose` property exposing a
 method to properly stop the service and a
 `fatalErrorPromise` that will be rejected if an
 unrecoverable error happens.

 Initializers can be declared as singletons. This means
  that they will be instanciated once for all for each
  executions silos using them (we will cover this
  topic later on).

[See in context](./src/index.js#L152-L175)



### Execution silos

Once every initializers are registered, we need a way to bring
 them to life. Execution silos are where the magic happens.
 For each call of the `run` method with given dependencies,
 a new silo is created and the required environment to
 run the actual code is leveraged.

Depending on your application design, you could run it
 in only one execution silo or into several ones
 according to the isolation level your wish to reach.

[See in context](./src/index.js#L504-L514)



## Build

Using Knifecycle only makes sense for
 monoliths. For some targets like
 serverless functions, a better
 approach is to simply build a raw
 initialization function.

For the build to work, we need:
- a hash of various constants that may be
 used.
- an autoloader that resolves dependencies
 names to its actual initializer
- the dependencies list you want to
 initialize

[See in context](./src/build.js#L4-L19)

